# EclipseWorlSpace
Socket Programming
The project has Five major functionalities of a web request are simulated in this application. The top three simulate a client request and the last two simulate a server request. The first functionality is a java programing that will fetch a web page from a server and display the page contents. The contents are displayed as an html page. To see how it looks like the page will need to be browsed so that a user can view what it looks like. However, our interest is to investigate what an html page includes; not all but, some major contents like connection, last updated and retrieval status.  
The second functionality is a send request multiple pages using one connection. To avoid user type error, the socket programing application provides the user with option of three additional links to be retrieved.  The provided options are downloadable files other than html pages. Furthermore, the requested pages will be saved under a local folder on the hosts machine.   
The third functionality demonstrates serial HTTP GETs request to the web Server. By displaying, other HTTP web page contents that are linked to the HTTP response based on the first requested page. The project also demonstrates a java programming feature in the web world by depicting one of the terminal as a Web Server that accepts HTTP request from another terminal’s Web Browser i.e. acting as a client and the Server responds back with an HTML message.  
A 302-redirect feature is also demonstrated by changes at server level – whereby the redirect is totally transparent to the page requesting client. The project excludes user interface (UI) design from the scope, but still supports command line execution to consolidate all the above 5 listed features in one place. 
